In this video, I will introduce
you to log likelihoods.
These are just logarithms of
the probabilities we're
calculating from the last video.
But they are way more
convenient to work with
and they appear throughout
deep-learning and NLP.
Okay, so let's go back
to the table you saw
previously that contains
the conditional
probabilities of each word,
for positive or
negative sentiment.
Words can have many shades
of emotional meaning.
But for the purpose of
sentiment classification,
they're simplified
into three categories:
neutral, positive, and negative.
All can be identified by
using their conditional
probabilities.
These categories can be
numerically estimated just by
dividing the
corresponding conditional
probabilities of this table.
Now, let's see how this ratio
looks for the words
in your vocabulary.
So the ratio for the word i is
0.2 divided by 0.2, or one.
The ratio for the
word m is again one.
The ratio for the word happy is
0.14 divided by 0.1 or 1.4.
Do the same for
because, learning,
and NLP, the ratio is one.
For sad and not,
their ratio is 0.1
divided by 0.15 or 0.6.
Again, neutral words have
already shown you one.
Positive words have a
ratio larger than one.
The larger the ratio,
the more positive the
word's going to be.
On the other hand, negative words
have a ratio smaller than one.
The smaller the value,
the more negative the word.
In this week's assignment,
you'll implement a function
that filters words
depending on their
positivity or negativity.
You will find the
expression shown
here to be very
helpful with that.
These ratios are essential in
Naive Bayes' for
binary classification.
I'll illustrate why using an
example you've seen before.
Recall earlier where you used
the formula to categorize
a tweet as positive
if the products of the
corresponding ratios of
every word appears in the
tweet is bigger than one.
We said it was negative
if it was less than one.
This is called the likelihood.
If you're to take a ratio
between the positive
and negative tweets,
you'd have what's
called the prior ratio.
I haven't mentioned it till
now because in this
small example,
you had exactly the same number
of positive and negative tweets,
making the ratio one.
In this week's assignments,
you'll have a balanced datasets,
so you'll be working
with a ratio of one.
In the future though,
when you're building
your own application,
remember that this term becomes
important for
unbalanced datasets.
With the addition
of the prior ratio,
you now have the full
Naive Bayes' formula
for binary classification,
a simple, fast, and
powerful method that you
can use to establish
a baseline quickly.
Now it's a good time to mention
some other important
considerations
for your implementation
of Naive Bayes'.
Sentiments probability
calculation requires
multiplication of many numbers
with values between zero and one.
Carrying out such multiplications
on their computer
runs the risk of
numerical underflow when
the number returned
is so small it can't be
stored on your device.
Luckily, there's a mathematical
trick to solve this.
It involves using a
property of logarithms.
Recall that the formula you're
using to calculate a score for
Naive Bayes' is the prior
multiplied by the likelihood.
The trick is to use a log of
the score instead
of the raw score.
This allows you to write
the previous expression as
the sum of the log prior
and the log likelihood,
which is a sum of
the logarithms of
the conditional probability ratio
of all unique words
in your corpus.
Let's use this method
to classify the tweets.
I'm happy because I'm learning.
Remember how you use the Naive
Bayes' inference condition
earlier to get the sentiment
score for your tweets.
Now you're going to do something
very similar to get
the log of your score.
What you'll need to
calculate the log of
the score is called the Lambda.
This is the log of the ratio of
the probability that your word is
positive and you divide that
by the probability that
the word is negative.
Now let's calculate Lambda for
every word in our vocabulary.
So for the word I,
you get the logarithm
of 0.05 divided by 0.05.
Or the logarithm of one,
which is equal to zero.
Remember, the tweet
will be labeled
positive if the product
is larger than one.
By this logic, I would be
classified as neutral at zero.
For am, you take the
log of 0.04 over 0.04,
which again is equal to zero.
So you enter zero in the table.
For happy, you get
a Lambda of 2.2,
which is greater than zero,
indicating a positive sentiment.
From here on out,
you can calculate
the log score of
the entire corpus just by
summing out the Lambdas.
You're almost done with
the log likelihood.
Let's stop here and take
a quick look back at
what you did so far.
Words are often emotionally
ambiguous but you can
simplify them into
three categories and
then measure exactly
where they fall within
those categories
for binary classification.
You do so by dividing
the conditional probabilities of
the words in each category.
This ratio can be expressed as
a logarithm as well,
called Lambda.
You can use that to reduce
the risk of numerical underflow.